We are now ready to create our pipeline.
A pipeline is a set of transformations that we apply to
our data so that it can be fed efficiently to a neural network.
Let's take a look at the pipeline we're going to use.
The first item in our pipeline is our training set.
What will follow is a series of
transformations we're going to apply to the images in our training set.
The first operation we're going to use is called catch.
That catch method moves our dataset into memory for quick access.
Note that you should only use catch if you have enough memory to fit your dataset.
Here, we're using the MNIST dataset which is pretty small.
So you can comfortably fit it into the memory of most computers.
However, other datasets can be gigabytes in
size and too large to fit in the memory you have available on your device.
So before you use catch,
make sure you have enough memory on your computer to feed your data,
otherwise, your program will crash when it runs out of memory.
The second transformation we're going to apply is called shuffle.
In this case, the shuffle transformation randomly shuffles
the images in our dataset before being fed into one network.
This is to prevent a network for memorizing the order of our data.
Shuffle takes one argument,
which represents the number of images we want to shuffle.
This is also called the buffer size.
This is a free parameter that you can choose to shuffle all the images
in your dataset or only a fraction of them as we have done here.
The reason we're not shuffling the entire dataset,
is just to increase our training efficiency,
since the shuffle transformation is performed at every iteration.
Therefore, if you shuffle all the 60,000 images at every iteration,
then this will increase your training time.
So we're only shuffling a random subset of images from the training set.
As with a lot of these transformations,
you can always experiment with different parameters
until you get the best balance between accuracy and speed.
Next, we batch our images.
This transformation takes in the batch size as an argument.
The batch size is the number of images we pass through our network in every iteration,
we feed our data into our network in batches for efficiency.
Here, we have chosen a batch size of 64 but other values can also be used.
Again, you can experiment with
different batch sizes to see which value optimizes your training time.
Next, we use a map transformation to apply
the normalized function we have defined here to our images.
As you might remember,
the pixel values in our images ranged 0-255.
Normalizing the pixel values in our images so that they are in the range from 0-1,
helps the algorithms used during training to converge easier.
Consequently, we created this normalized function that takes
in our images and divides the pixel values by 255.
We also convert the type of our tensors from uint8 to
tf float 32 to represent 32-bit single precision floating point numbers.
Now, the last operation we're going to perform is called prefetch.
The prefetch method starts preparing the next batch of data,
while the current batch is being processed.
This way, we optimize our pipeline by eliminating
the time the processors have to wait before getting new data.
We should note that many of these operations are commutative.
However, the ordering of certain transformations has performance implications.
For example, the map transformation has an overhead
related to the scheduling an executing the user-defined function.
Normally, these overhead is small compared to the amount
of computation performed by the function you defined.
However, if the function you define does little work,
the overhead will dominate the total time.
For example, let's suppose every time we call the map operation,
we incurred in an overhead of one minute,
but that our user-defined function only took one second to complete.
Therefore, if we call the map operation on three images,
it will take three minutes and three seconds to complete,
out of which, three minutes are just overhead.
This is very inefficient.
In these cases, it is recommended that we write
functions that can perform operations on batches of images.
That way we can batch our images before calling the map transformation.
Therefore, if we take our three images and put them in a single batch,
we will only have to call the map operation once instead of three times,
incurring in an overhead of only one minute, instead of three.
If you notice, this is what we have done here.
We've applied batch before map because our user-defined function does very little work.
Again, we've done this for efficiency.
To read more about pipeline performance,
make sure you check out these links.
Now, let's take a look at training batches.
Training batches is going to be an iterator,
just like our original training set.
That means that we can use a for loop to go through the batches produced by our pipeline.
Let's take a look at one of the images produced by our training pipeline.
Again, we're going to use a for loop to go
through our training batches and we're going to use the take method.
However, in this case,
since training batches contains batches of images,
the take 1 method will return a single batch with 64 images.
So now we're looping through batches of images and labels,
instead of single images and labels.
These batches are still tensors.
We can see that their are values have a dtype of float 32 instead of uint8 as before.
This is because we changed the dtype in
the normalized function that we used in our pipeline.
We can also see that our batch tensors have a shape of 64 by 28,
by 28, by 1.
The first number here,
represents our batch size.
So this tensor holds 64 images that are 28 by 28, by 1.
Similarly, the label batch is now a tensor with
64 numbers that represent the labels for each of the 64 images in her batch.
Now, let's plot one of the images produced by our pipeline.
The steps are the same as before,
except that now we have batches of images instead of just a single image,
as we mentioned earlier.
Here, we convert our image batch to a NumPy array by using the NumPy method.
Then we squeeze it so that we can shape it to 64 by 28, by 28.
We also convert our label batch to a NumPy array using the NumPy method.
Images is now a NumPy array that contains 64 images.
Therefore, in order to plot the first image,
we have to select it by setting the index to zero.
So this will plot the first image in our batch and we can see it here.
As we can see, the image is still 28 by 28,
but now the range of pixel values go from zero to one instead of zero to 255.